Star Control  is a  actionadventure game developed by Legend Entertainment and published by Accolade. The third installment in the Star Control trilogy the game was released for MSDOS in  and Mac OS in . The story takes place after Star Control II beginning with a disaster that disrupts superluminal travel through hyperspace. This leads the player to investigate a new quadrant of space joined by allied aliens from the previous games.The game features a singleplayer campaign that is similar to the previous installment combining space exploration alien dialogue and shiptoship combat. As a mainstay of the series the player engages in topdown battles between starships with unique abilities. In contrast to Star Control II hyperspace flight is replaced with instantaneous fast travel. Planetary exploration is replaced with a colony management system inspired by the original Star Control. Combat offers more detailed steering and aiming as well as additional playerversusplayer multiplayer options.Accolade hired Legend Entertainment to create this sequel after the series creators Paul Reiche III and Fred Ford decided to pursue other projects. Legend was selected due to their passion for the previous Star Control games as well as their experience as veteran game writers from the acclaimed adventure game studio Infocom. They designed the game in consultation with fans replacing features from Star Control II that received negative feedback. Star Control  was considered a critical and commercial success upon release with praise for its story and varied gameplay. However the game later suffered from comparisons to the awardwinning Star Control II with a mixed legacy among both fans and critics.Star Control  is a space actionadventure game with strategic elements. The gameplay is distinct from the rest of the series combining elements from the first two games with new systems. Star Control  features shiptoship combat as seen in the previous games. It also includes a colonization system inspired by the first Star Control with story exploration and dialogue similar to that of Star Control II.Star Control  features a D ship combat system which the previous games in the series call the melee mode. Two starships face off in a space battle and attempt to outgun and outmaneuver each other. Every alien race has a unique ship each with its own weapon and secondary ability. Action in Star Control  utilizes the same topdown perspective from the previous games as well as offering a new perspective from behind the ship. The ship controls allow more degrees of rotation with more detailed aiming steering and scaling.This combat can be played as a standalone game mode offering competition against an artificial intelligence opponent or against other players. Where the first two games allowed two players to play at the same keyboard Star Control  includes multiplayer modes for network modem and serial connections. However several of the ships from previous games are removed as the game only includes ships that are featured in its story.The combat system is integrated into a singleplayer story mode where the player explores planetary systems to meet alien races colonize worlds collect items and advance the games plot. The player can use warp technology to instantaneously travel to any star in the sector by clicking on a star map with a mouse in contrast to the slower hyperspace voyages in Star Control II. The change is explained ingame as a mysterious hyperspace collapse which becomes the central question driving the players action. The player must follow the origins of this collapse to the galactic core where they encounter new alien friends and foes. Much of the game involves dialog with alien races each with unique personalities. The player can select from different dialog options leading to different reactions and story events. The dialog screens feature digitized fullmotion video of mechanical puppets instead of the D animated pixel art of the previous games.In Star Control  the player takes the role of the Captain the central protagonist from the previous game. Shortly after the events of Star Control II hyperspace mysteriously collapses throughout the galaxy stranding most spacefaring races. For the next several years the Captain experiments with ancient Precursor artifacts and creates a new ship that can instantly warp between stars without hyperspace. The Captain eventually traces the origins of the hyperspace collapse to the galactic core and assembles an alliance of ten alien races to investigate the unexplored quadrant.In the distant Kessari Quadrant the Captain clashes with the Hegemonic Crux a power bloc of several alien races led by the Ploxis Plutocrats. The Captains investigation also reveals an apocalyptic threat the imminent return of interdimensional beings called the Eternal Ones who appear once an eon to consume all sentient energy.The Captain eventually discovers that the ancient Precursors disappeared on purpose devolving themselves into a nonsentient species that the Eternal Ones would not consume. The Precursors also created semisentient robots the Daktaklakpak to reverse this process after the Eternal Ones left. However the Daktaklakpak malfunctioned leaving the Precursors stranded at an animal intelligence level. The Captain temporarily restores a single Precursor to their full intelligence who explains that the hyperspace collapse is connected to interdimensional fatigue caused by the Eternal Ones. Before the Precursor dies they tell the Captain about an unfinished Precursor project which could harvest sentient energy for the Eternal Ones in a nonlethal way.The Captain encounters other urgent threats in the Kessari Quadrant. They persuade the Owa race to stop dumping their antimatter waste on Rainbow Worlds which was preventing them from performing their function of mitigating interdimensional fatigue. The Captain also breaks the power of the Hegemonic Crux culminating in the defeat of a Crux Precursor battleship at the galactic core.The Captain finally confronts the Heralds of the Eternal Ones at the galactic core. After defeating them the Captain finds a way to combine the Eternal Ones technology with the unfinished technology from the Precursors. The Captain uses the new device to peacefully gather enough sentient energy to satisfy the Eternal Ones saving all sentient life from destruction.